"He just doesn't seem to be the same person.  He forgets things, has problems following a conversation, and he loses his temper more easily.  He can not tolerate noise or too many things going on at once.  His sleeping and eating habits have changed.  It takes him much longer to figure out something or finish doing something than it used to.  I have to remind him to do almost everything.  He seems to have trouble paying attention and he has not been able to return to work."

Brain Injury Association USA
www.biausa.org

Brain Injury Association of Georgia (BIAG) 
1441 Clifton Road NE Atlanta, GA 30322 
www.braininjurygeorgia.org 

Brain Injury Resource Foundation
www.birf.info

Brain Injury Peer Visitor Program www.braininjurypeervisitor.org

Blog of TBI Warrior
http://www.tbiwarriors.blogspot.com/

CDC - Injury - Concussion
Heads Up Online Training Course
Heads Up to Schools: Know Your Concussions

Brain injury can occur during an automobile accident, work related accident, military combat, electrocution, or any kind of trauma to the head such as a concussion.  When brain injuries occur because of an outside force, it is often referred to as Traumatic Brain Injury.  Brain injuries also result from illnesses such as strokes, aneurysms, seizures, cancer or tumor, hydrocephalus, brain surgery, encephalopathies (infections or metabolic imbalances that affect the brain), and lack of oxygen to the brain during surgery.  Also, drugs and alcohol abuse, medication overdoses or severe adverse side effects, and toxic exposure to chemicals can cause brain injury.  These types of events are usually referred to as Acquired Brain Injuries.

Brain injuries affect people in various ways, depending on the location and severity of the injury.  A patient may or may not have been in a coma or lost consciousness, but there is a significant change in a person's thinking skills and personality after suffering a brain injury.  Changes in thinking and daily functioning are often noted by the patient's family and friends, even if the patient does not recognize any problems with their thinking.  Common symptoms of brain injury include decreases in memory, attention, concentration, speech or language skills, reading, math, naming of objects, word finding, making decisions, solving problems, motivation, initiation, tolerance for frustration, and anger control.  Also, psychiatric symptoms often are a result of brain injury with the most common being depression and anxiety.  Sometimes headaches and seizures accompany brain injuries.

It is critical to have brain injuries evaluated through neuropsychological testing as soon as possible.  The brain usually does the most healing in the first two years after injury and that is the time period to begin using cognitive rehabilitation to help learn new ways of doing things.  Testing identifies those areas of thinking that need treatment. The brain usually does not heal 100% and the person will likely have some problems the remainder of their lives.  However, we cannot determine to what extent the brain will heal itself or what problems will remain. Those things vary widely from person to person.  We do know that cognitive rehabilitation, which is a therapy aimed at teaching someone how to compensate for their limitations, has the most powerful impact when provided during the first two years after the brain injury.  Neuropsychological testing is often recommended sometime within the first 6 months after injury (if possible), and then is repeated at the 1 year and 2 year marks to document the patient's progress and remaining areas of difficulty.

Testing also helps determine if a person has the cognitive or thinking skills needed to return to work or school.  If it is determined that a person can work, but cannot return to their previous job, recommendations can be made for the type of environment in which a person would work best.  Recommendations are also made for the person who wishes to return to school or college.  This testing is required in schools and colleges to get learning assistance. If you would like to set an appointment contact our office.

What is neuropsychological testing?

Neuropsychology is the study of the relationship between the brain and behavior.  Testing involves understanding how a healthy or an unhealthy brain is functioning.  CT scans and MRIs usually can identify if there is something that has structurally changed in the brain, such as a significant injury, stroke, tumor, etc.  However, these tests usually run by a neurologist cannot tell a person how well their brain is working.  Neuropsychological evaluations are pencil and paper tasks that challenge a person's abilities in all the areas of thinking, including attention, planning, organization, problem solving, memory, drawing abilities, spatial relationships, academic skills, language, senses, ability to think quickly, and other cognitive skills.  Neuropsychological testing is more thorough than psychological or even psychoeducational testing in that it goes beyond assessing personality, intelligence and emotional functioning and assesses all areas of the brain.

Is neuropsychological testing right for you?

"I've been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, a personality disorder, attention deficit, post-traumatic stress disorder, OCD, depression and anxiety.  I want to know what is really the problem?"

Neuropsychological testing is for anyone who believes they have a change or problem in their thinking and want to know what the cause is and how to treat it.  Often a person has a head injury or has suffered an illness and are referred by their neurologist for testing.  However, some people are referred by their general physician, psychiatrist, rehabilitation specialists, lawyer, Workers' Compensation case manager, or school psychologist.  Not all patients have had an injury or illness; in the case of learning disabilities, the person may have always had the problem. If you have a concern about your daily functioning, ability to work, succeed in school, or have any problems in your thinking or emotions, then neuropsychological testing may be the service you need to answer your questions and provide recommendations toward improving your functioning.

What does neuropsychological testing involve?

Testing can take 1-2 days depending on the problem.  The first hour is an interview with the patient and any family members that may be able to provide additional information about the patient's history.  You will be asked questions about your injury, illness or learning problem, as well as questions about your mood, daily activities, medical history, medications, education, work, and social history. The remainder of the day will be spent testing the various functions of the brain through different kinds of tasks to see how well you perform. Once testing is completed, the tests are scored, interpreted, and a detailed report is written that can be shared with any of your physicians and /or with your school.
