RACHEL LACY, PSY.D., P.C.
1805 Herrington Road, Building 2
Lawrenceville, Georgia 30043
Phone: 770-722-7827
Fax: 770-962-1886

info@dr-rachel-lacy.com

OFFICE HOURS AND
CLIENT SERVICES
Office hours are Monday through Friday 10 am to 6 pm.

Dr. Lacy is a Medicare provider

Neuropsychological and behavioral medicine services are offered to adults and
adolescents.
Psychotherapy for psychiatric disorders is offered to individuals age 16 and
older.


Directions to Dr. Lacy’s Office
From Lawrenceville (far side)
Take Hwy. 120 going toward Duluth and cross over the bridge of 316, and continue on 120 crossing over Lawrenceville-Suwanee Road. Continue on Hwy. 120 to Atkinson Rd. (This is the next road after Sugarloaf Parkway. LA Fitness and Rite Aid will be on the left) Make a left turn onto Atkinson Rd. Go to the first traffic light and make a right onto Herrington Rd. Get into the left turn lane and make a left into the first parking lot. We are building #2 on the left.

From 85 North
Take I-85 South to exit 107 Duluth – Lawrenceville Highway / 120 East. This is the Discover Mills Mall exit. Take a left going across the bridge and heading toward Lawrenceville. Go to the third traffic light, Atkinson Rd. (there is a Shell Gas Station on right) and make a right turn onto Atkinson Rd. Go one block to the first traffic light which is Herrington Rd. and make a right turn onto Herrington Rd. and get into the left turn lane. Make a left turn into the first parking lot. We are building #2 on the left.

From 75 South
Take 75 South to 285 East to 85 North. Take I-85 North and after passing under Pleasant Hill Road, get into the right hand lane and take exit 105, which says Duluth – Lawrenceville Highway. This is an access ramp that splits again to 316. DO NOT TAKE HWY. 316, but stay in the middle lane and then veer to the left and follow the signs for the Duluth-Lawrenceville Hwy, which is the Discover Mills Mall exit. The road splits again and you will stay in the right hand lane so that you are heading toward Lawrenceville when the ramp merges onto Hwy. 120. Go to the third traffic light, Atkinson Rd. (there is a Shell Gas Station on right) and make a right turn onto Atkinson Rd. Go one block to the first traffic light which is Herrington Rd. and make a right turn onto Herrington Rd. and get into the left turn lane. Make a left turn into the first parking lot. We are building #2 on the left.

From 85 South
Take I-85 North and after passing under Pleasant Hill Road, get into the right hand lane and take exit 105, which says Duluth – Lawrenceville Highway. This is an access ramp that splits again to 316. DO NOT TAKE HWY. 316, but stay in the middle lane and then veer to the left and follow the signs for the Duluth-Lawrenceville Hwy, which is the Discover Mills Mall exit. The road splits again and you will stay in the right hand lane so that you are heading toward Lawrenceville when the ramp merges onto Hwy. 120. Go to the third traffic light, Atkinson Rd. (there is a Shell Gas Station on right) and make a right turn onto Atkinson Rd. Go one block to the first traffic light which is Herrington Rd. and make a right turn onto Herrington Rd. and get into the left turn lane. Make a left turn into the first parking lot. We are building #2 on the left.
