"She doesn’t remember as well as she used to.  She can remember things that happened long ago, but not what happened yesterday.  She’ll ask me the same question several times a day, sometimes after only five minutes.  She gets lost even in the grocery store. I've noticed this has been getting worse over the past two years."

As we age, our thinking skills change and we realize that we are not as mentally sharp as we once were.  The question is when to worry about these changes and begin to think about the possibility of Dementia. There are a number of different kinds of Dementia, or what people used to call "senility."  Dementia is a disease of the central nervous system that basically reduces brain functioning gradually over time. Dementias include Parkinson's, Creutzfeld-Jacob, Lewy Body, Vascular Dementia (which is caused by strokes) and other progressive diseases of the brain. The most familiar type of dementia is Alzheimer's dementia.  The main characteristic of Alzheimer's is gradual loss of short term memory, but other things can also be affected.  The person can have problems making decisions, paying bills, finding their way around, recalling names, finding the right word to say, controlling or showing emotions, or remembering how to do things.  Often the early signs of dementia look like depression and a person may be sent for neuropsychological testing to determine which diagnosis is the most accurate. It is important to diagnose Alzheimer's early because there are helpful treatments that can slow the progression of the disease, though there is no cure.

Another term that is being used more frequently is Mild Cognitive Impairment, or MCI.  Individuals with MCI have a decrease in one or more areas of thinking, but the decrease is not significant enough to be diagnosed as a dementia.  This is a crucial time to diagnose problems with thinking and memory because it is currently believed that the earlier a person receives treatment, the better chance that the medications will slow the decline in thinking.  If you have a concern that your thinking skills are not as good as they once were, and you are worried that the changes are not just a part of normal aging, then you may want to ask us about neuropsychological testing.  If you would like to set an appointment contact our office.


Alzheimer's Association
www.alz.org

National Parkinson Foundation
www.parkinson.org

National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke
www.nihds.nih.gov/stroke

National Stroke Association
www.stroke.org

American Stroke Association
www.strokeassociation.org

National Register of Health Service Providers in Psychology
www.nationalregister.org
www.findapsychologist.org
