ADHD and Learning Disabilities

"He has problems paying attention in school and at home.  He doesn't finish his homework unless I am over him the whole time, and then he often forgets to turn it in.  The teachers say he seems to be daydreaming a lot and he talks too much in class.  It's frustrating because it is such a struggle to get him to do something he does not want to do, but if it's something that interests him like video games, he can do it all day!"

Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder is a widely used term now in schools and homes to describe people who have problems paying attention. However, ADHD is a condition that includes more than just paying attention.  The area of the brain affected is where the highest level of thinking takes place, and therefore, everything from planning, organizing, judgment and decision making are all problematic for the person who has ADHD.

Common complaints parents make about their children who may have ADHD are:

Not listening and complaining of forgetfulness
Problems starting and finishing tasks
Taking a long time to complete a task
Needing outside structure such as frequent prompting to stay on task
Organizing materials and forgetting books and homework
Lack of motivation to do chores or uninteresting things
Not being able to follow multi-step directions
Over-talkativeness and excessive energy
Impulsivity
Irritability and argumentativeness
Problems with messiness in their rooms and with their personal belongings

Parents may wonder if their teens are "lazy," rebellious, disrespectful, or if they have a problem processing information.  In general, most kids really want to do their best, and what may appear as laziness or apathy may be the teen's reaction to being frustrated in their overall performance. Individuals with these issues often suffer from low self-esteem because it seems that the harder they try, the less they get accomplished. Depression and anxiety often accompany ADHD and other learning problems as the person does not feel able to overcome their learning obstacles.

ADHD and learning disabilities cannot be diagnosed with a simple behavior checklist or a one hour interview with a psychologist or psychiatrist. ADHD in particular can mimic other disorders, such as depression and anxiety or behavioral disorders.  Thorough testing has to be conducted to determine if the person really has ADHD, to what degree, and what areas of functioning are affected.  In addition, other learning disabilities, such as reading, math, or auditory processing problems, co-occur in 70% of the individuals who have ADHD.  It is important to determine where the thinking process is inefficient so that the right course of treatment can be recommended.  Stimulant medications help only individuals who truly have ADHD, and they generally increase ability to focus and therefore learn; however, they do not "fix" the other issues of executive functions such as planning and decision making. Strategies often need to be learned to help the person work around their weak areas, which vary from individual to individual.  Testing is crucial in identifying a person’s strengths, as well as their weaknesses, so that they may build on their strengths to succeed in school and in life. If the problem is not ADHD, but anxiety or depression, different medications and treatment options would be recommended to address the issue.  In the case of other learning disorders, stimulant medications would not be useful, but tutoring and cognitive rehabilitation in the person's areas of weakness can make a huge impact.

If you or your teen has a learning problem, the information you would learn through testing and cognitive rehabilitation would be invaluable to you in terms of ensuring success. Even if your child has been tested in elementary school, their brains have developed since then and what may have been a problem before most likely has changed.  Re-testing in middle school and high school is important to document the changes in development and identify new areas of strength and weakness.  For teens and college students, such testing is required in order to gain assistance from the college's Learning Centers.  The Board of Regents has on their web site the documentation required for a college student to have additional time for tests, tutoring, and other accommodations needed to optimize learning. Testing must be current to obtain Learning Center services.   For more information on learning disabilities and testing for ADHD for teens and adults, contact our office.

Amen Clinics (ADHD)
www.Amenclinics.com

Georgia Board of Regents- Center for Learning information
www2.gsu.edu/~wwwrld/6774.html

“
”
’
