Dr. Lacy offers a variety of treatment for a wide range of problems.  Her primary specialty is in Neuropsychology, the study of the relationship between the brain and behavior. Conditions that would fall under the category of neuropsychology include brain injury, stroke, tumors, seizures, hydrocephalus, Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, learning disabilities, ADHD, and other neurological conditions.  Services provided include neuropsychological testing (please see Brain Injury page for a description), education, therapy to increase one’s adjustment to their condition, family therapy to increase support and understanding, and cognitive rehabilitation to improve thinking skills and daily functioning.

A secondary specialty is the treatment of Chronic Pain   People with chronic headaches, back pain, orthopedic pain, and nerve pain can receive therapy to learn pain management techniques.  Though your pain is real and physical, psychological factors play a key role in increasing your tolerance for pain, reducing the severity of pain, and improving daily functioning.  Psychological testing is also provided as part of the pre-surgical screening for spinal cord stimulators and intrathecal morphine pumps.

Psychological testing> is offered for a variety of situations including "fitness for duty" evaluations, military evaluations, adoptions, and personality assessments as an adjunct to treatment.  Individuals can be referred by other psychologists, psychiatrists, counselors, physicians, adoption agencies, or employment agencies for psychological testing.

Dr. Lacy also provides traditional psychotherapy to treat depression, anxiety, panic disorder, Obsessive Compulsive disorder, bipolar disorder, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, grief, relationship issues, anger management, low self-esteem, communication issues, stress management, adjustment to life transitions, and management of chronic medical conditions.

For more information on these services, please contact our office.


Dr. Lacy strives to provide accurate and objective assessments of brain disorders with practical recommendations so that the patient receives the best possible treatment to meet their needs.  Dr. Lacy believes in working with all members of the patient’s support system to work toward maximizing an individual’s ability to function on a daily basis.  Collaboration with treating physicians and case managers is the key to providing continuity of care.  Education and support for family members helps to improve understanding and management of the changes that accompany injury and illness.  All aspects of a person’s life are addressed in treatment, including physical, emotional, mental and spiritual issues.

OFFICE HOURS

AND CLIENT SERVICES

Office hours are Monday through Friday 10 am to 6 pm.

Neuropsychological and behavioral medicine services are offered to adults and adolescents.
Psychotherapy for psychiatric disorders is offered to individuals age 16 and older.


RACHEL LACY, PSY.D

Dr. Lacy is a licensed psychologist trained in working with people who have acquired brain injuries, chronic pain, chronic medical conditions, and various psychological disorders.

Dr. Lacy's credentials include a Master's in Guidance and Counseling from the University of Georgia, and Master's and Doctoral degrees in Clinical Psychology from Georgia School of Professional Psychology /Argosy University. She received specialized training in neuropsychological assessment from Emory Center for Rehabilitation Medicine and completed her internship in neuropsychology and behavioral medicine at the University of Miami Medical School/ Jackson Memorial Hospital.  Her two year post-doctoral residency was completed at The Center for Cognitive Rehabilitation in Decatur, Georgia under the supervision of Stephen J. Johnson, Ph.D., ABPP, and John R. Sass, Ph.D. Dr. Lacy is a member of the American Psychological Association, National Academy of Neuropsychology, International Neuropsychological Society, American Academy of Pain Management, and National Register of Health Service Providers

http://www.nationalregister.org/
http://www.findapsychologist.org/
